Project Name: Job Application Tracker Extension (Manifest V3)
1. Executive Summary
This project is a browser extension designed to automate the tracking of job applications. It functions as a "silent observer" on recruitment websites, automatically capturing job details when a user initiates an application. It provides a centralized dashboard for the user to manage the lifecycle of their applications, from "Applied" to "Offer" or "Rejection," and allows for data portability via CSV export.

2. Core Architecture
The extension follows the Chrome Extension Manifest V3 standard. It utilizes a modular file structure to ensure performance, maintainability, and scalability.

Architecture Pattern: Event-Driven / Content Injection.

Storage Layer: chrome.storage.local (Client-side persistence).

UI Framework: Vanilla HTML/CSS/JavaScript (No external framework dependencies).

3. Component Breakdown
A. The Configuration (manifest.json)
The brain of the extension. It defines permissions (storage, activeTab, scripting) and uses content_scripts matching patterns to inject specific logic only into relevant domains.

Action: Triggers a lightweight popup (popup/index.html).

Routing: Maps specific URLs (e.g., *.linkedin.com) to specific JS files (scripts/linkedin.js).

B. The "Spy" (Content Scripts)
These scripts run in the context of the web page. They are modularized by platform to prevent cross-contamination of logic and improve memory usage.

Trigger Mechanism: document.addEventListener('click', ...) looking for specific keywords ("Apply", "Easy Apply", "Apply now").

Data Extraction: Uses DOM traversal (querySelector, closest) to scrape:

Role Title

Company Name

Job URL

Supported Platforms:

LinkedIn: (scripts/linkedin.js)

Indeed: (scripts/indeed.js)

Internshala: (scripts/internshala.js)

Glassdoor: (scripts/glassdoor.js)

C. The "Manager" (Shared Utility)
A utility script (scripts/utils.js) injected alongside platform scripts.

Responsibility: Handles the communication with chrome.storage.local.

Logic: Performs duplicate checking (based on URL) to prevent double-logging and handles the success notification (Alert/Toast).

D. The User Interfaces
The Popup (popup/):

Purpose: Quick status check.

Functionality: Displays total application count and provides a deep link to the full Dashboard.

The Dashboard (dashboard/):

Purpose: Full CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) management.

Functionality:

Table View: Lists all tracked jobs.

Status Management: Dropdown to change status (Applied → Interviewing → Assignment → Offer → Rejected).

Rich Data Entry: Text areas for notes and specific fields for "Offer Details" (CTC, Joining Date).

Data Portability: Client-side CSV generation and download.

4. Data Schema
The data is stored as an array of objects within chrome.storage.local.

JSON

[
  {
    "id": "generated_timestamp_or_uuid",
    "company": "String (Scraped)",
    "role": "String (Scraped)",
    "url": "String (Window Location)",
    "platform": "String (e.g., 'LinkedIn')",
    "date": "ISO String (YYYY-MM-DD)",
    "status": "Enum ['Applied', 'Interviewing', 'Assignment', 'Offer', 'Rejected']",
    "note": "String (User Input)",
    "offerDetails": "String (User Input, Conditional on status='Offer')"
  }
]
5. User Journey Flow
Acquisition: User navigates to a job board (e.g., LinkedIn) and finds a job.

Trigger: User clicks the "Apply" button.

Capture:

The extension halts for a microsecond.

Scrapes DOM elements for Company/Role.

Checks storage for duplicates.

Saves data to local storage.

Alerts user: "Job Saved".

Management:

User clicks Extension Icon -> Sees count -> Clicks "Open Dashboard".

Dashboard opens in a new tab.

Lifecycle:

User receives an interview call -> Updates status to "Interviewing".

User receives an offer -> Updates status to "Offer" -> Fills in "Salary/Date".

Export: User clicks "Download CSV" to backup data for personal analysis.

6. Scalability & Maintenance
The architecture is designed for easy expansion. To add a new platform (e.g., Naukri.com):

Create scripts/naukri.js.

Write the specific DOM selectors for that site.

Add the domain match pattern to manifest.json.

No changes are required in the Dashboard or Storage logic.